Eggs
Alex Kuo

When they were children, both my grandmothers had their feet 
bound; thereafter they had to learn to balance their feelings very 
carefully. The pain too will pass, Renoir said in 1903. Renoir was to 
become a friend of my mother Katherine who was not yet born at the 
time he first said these words; but he repeated every word in 1910 
when she was two and they became friends. This time he was however 
not referring to the pain which accompanied Katherine's mother's 
bound feet when she was a child, but instead anticipated the alienation 
that Katherine was to feel later from the Tai Chung community for 
not binding her feet. Strangers sitting on the stoops of their houses 
and shops all over the city would point to her outsized feet and 
untethered walk and whisper comments along under their breath. 
At five Katherine said to Renoir, / will never drop an egg from the 
high beam. 
Later she went to school abroad and met her husband shortly after 
he had publicly cut his cue in a Berkeley demonstration. 
Then the magical happened in 1944 in Chungking: overnight 
Katherine disappeared from our lives, followed by absolute silence. In 
the first forty-three years after her disappearance, not a whisper was 
said in the family about Katherine or her disappearance, at least not 
within my listening. 
But now the children and the other children are beginning to dis 
sent. First there was the memory that would not go away. Then there 
was the garrulous word Renoir, eventually hatching question. Then 
the whispers ripped the shaded heart. Soon the nights were humming 
with telephone conversations. We made contact with the secretary of 
immigration, the archivist of birth records, the alumni minister; we 
poured over maps and old driving records; we interviewed postal 
carriers, tricksters, insurance chancellors, and even tried to get into 
the Mormon Redemption Center. We looked up every taxonomy and 
geography, and collected everything tangible from both sides of the 
Pacific.
We are here for the duration, carefully balanced between address 
and rumor, carefully watching those who are siphoning from our 
pain, allowing us to go on. In the early morning our children will 
thrust from our thighs and float away from us, like chilled stars.
